Hello everyone and welcome to part two of CSSA level 1 in part two we're going to begin to discuss backgrounds
and borders.
We will also show you how to utilize the div and span tags that we mentioned during the H.M.S. of the
course but were actually able to really use.
Let's get started by jumping to the editor and RC S S files.
All right so here I have my browser open as well as my editor.
I have in the mail file have called it part 2 that HVM L and I use this link with the stylesheet to
reference in other CSSA file called Part 2 underscore master that see SS and you can really name these
whatever you want.
Just make sure that your link is correct.
To get started let's create a little bit of content in this age team l file.
I'm going to say this is a paragraph
and we'll also mention it's outside any device so outside any div container.
And then I'm actually going to create it live in a div allows us to essentially create a container.
And you'll notice that as I autocomplete this I get this class pop up don't worry about that for now
we're going to learn about class and a future lecturer and C Ss route.
Just leave it as the basic div opening and closing tags and I'm going to make three paragraph tags inside
of this.
First of all say I'm inside the div.
Second one will say I'm also inside the div and then the third one is going to say this inside div and
then we'll use the span tag that we've learned about and we'll say inside spam and save that let's refresh
make sure everything's working and we see here the subparagraph outside any div I'm inside.
Inside the div inside div and then inside span in all caps.
Perfect.
So now we have all the content.
It's time to play for CSSA file to see how we can affect that content.
And I'm a little zoomed in here so yours probably won't be as large in your browser as mine is but this
just so you can view it.
First thing I want to discuss is affecting the entire body of the H Tim L.
So you'll notice all or each Steimle content is inside these two body tags.
Everything else is just meta data.
So all the actually C.M. content is within these two body ties which means if I want to affect everything
essentially and that is T.M. I can call the body tag.
So that's my select attack.
And then I can't affect the property.
For instance one property I can affect is the background.
And you'll notice that Adam text editor will try to help you out with a bunch of prompts here.
Background color background position repeat etc..
Let's keep it basic and just do the background color and I will just type in a color here.
Let's type in gray as our background color going to save this and refreshes page.
And now I noticed that the entire background for everything in the body which is essentially all the
HTL content is great.
Perfect.
Now let's explore the div and remember the div allows us to essentially make these containers so div
or specify the background color for the DO to be something like Blue semi-colon.
Save it and refresh here and now everything that was inside the do these three lines including that
inside span are now have a background of blue and some also here for colors for very basic colors.
It doesn't matter whether you say background color or if you just say background either one of these
will work.
So if I save this and change this.
So let's say something like red which is going to be really bright and annoying.
So I want to suggest you do that but there it is.
I'm inside.
Nelson I have etc background essentially works the same way as background color when it comes to just
a very basic coloring.
Now let's explore how to do borders.
So borders are going to require three elements to it.
Basically the border color the border with and then the border style.
So for instance if I make a border for the div and I say the border let's say the border color is going
to be blue.
So the border colors blue if I click refresh here I'm not going to see anything.
And that's because I haven't defined the border with and the border style so I needed to find those
two first.
Otherwise CSSA doesn't really know how thick of a border I want be around this div so will say border
width and notice that we can actually specify left right top image bottom etc. are going to keep things
basic for now and just specify the border with.
And if I hit enter and text editor always here to help also says you want a thin border a median border
or a thick border.
So I'll say thick for now.
And then we'll also say border style and the border style will do is something like a well should say
dotted.
So let's save this refresh and you can see I have a dotted blue border around the div.
Now you may be also wondering well what's the difference between thick and thin.
So if I replace this with thin save that and refresh then I see if you can really see here but if you
do this on your computer you see extremely thin pixels here of the border.
Usually however you don't want to thin or thick you want to specify your own thickness and you can do
that by specifying the pixels so I can say something like 10 dx and that will tell me that I want the
border with to be 10 pixels.
If I refresh this then I can see 10 pixels here and later on will also see how to specify pixel widths
in relevance or in relationship to other elements.
So you don't have to have an absolute pixel.
So now let's make this super thick so make this 100 refresh this.
And I can see I have a really super thick.
So only four were able to show up.
Let's make this much thinner.
Something like five.
Save this refresh and here we have it five pixels can two pixels saving refresh and you get the idea.
All right.
So that was background background color and then the three elements you need for border the style the
width and the color.
And it's a lot of fun to play around with the styles especially since the Adam text editor is really
going to help you choose styles.
You can also do things such as a double refresh.
You can see this kind of double border almost looks like a painting.
OK.
So that was how we can affect things inside the div.
Now let's show you how we can affect text color.
So if I say something like paragraph called Color and make everything in sight of this something like
green then that will affect all the paragraphs regardless of where they are.
When you make this into a clear color let's say something like yellow and let's make this background's
blue and make this border color orange.
That way things are hopefully more clear for you to see.
All right.
So what I've done here is I changed the colors of the div background and border but I also said all
paragraph elements have the color yellow and notice I want to say all paragraph elements.
It doesn't matter whether they're inside the div or outside.
When I call something like this it specifically requests all paragraph elements regardless of where
they are.
Later I will show you how to select elements that are inside of divs and also a specific element type
so maybe only want to effect headings inside of a div or heading force inside of a specific div.
Then lastly I want to show you the span tag and the span allows us to grab anything within that span.
So remember it was these two words inside span.
So I will call background here
and say something like read and let's give it a color of black.
So now I save this and refresh over here I can see inside span is now background red color black.
All right.
So what do we learn.
So far we've learned the body div and Spanta x.
Hopefully now you realize you can basically call any female tag and start affecting its properties.
The properties we learned about so far are the background order and color properties.
Lastly I want to show you another case of background where you can actually set the background to be
an image.
So let me grab an image.
You can do this just by going to google images and then looking up whatever image you want.
So let's say I want a picture of a beach I can look up this right click here on this image.
Then I click view image and it takes me to this link right here.
So let me copy that full path and for background I'm going say not grey but I will actually call a special
key word your L in passen that it's higher your l.
So that's linking the background to this image.
So now I will save this Ambac undersea esus basics.
I will refresh and we can see here we get the if I expand this we get the whole beach image as the background
for the body if we want it we don't need to have it zoomed in like this.
We can specify various properties of this background image things for instance such as backgrounds repeats
or background no rips etc. so we can actually specify how many times we want it to repeat.
In our case the background image is so large that it's not going to make much of a difference because
I'm zoomed in.
But if I zoom out here you can begin to see that I have this background image I'm zoomed out right now
and I see that entire beach.
So if I want the background to repeat multiple times then under AP background Rippy I can say repeat
save that refresh this page and I can see now the background is being repeated.
All right.
So so far we have these kind of funky really 90s looking.
Tim L. sites.
Later on we're going to see how he can make these into much nicer.
Right now the point is to understand how CSSA works OK.
Do you have any questions feel free to post them to the Kewney forums.
I'll see you at the next lecture.